
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# FiringSeriation

This repository contains the data and code for our paper:

> Frerebeau, N. (2023). *Assessing the Firing of Ceramic Materials: a
> Seriation-Based Approach*. *Archéosciences, revue d’Archéométrie*.

### How to cite

Please cite this compendium as:

> Frerebeau, N. (2023). *Compendium of R code and data for Assessing the
> Firing of Ceramic Materials: a Seriation-Based Approach*. Accessed 09
> juin 2023.

## Contents

The **analysis** directory contains:

- [:file_folder: paper](/analysis/paper): Quarto source document for
  manuscript. Includes code to reproduce the figures and tables
  generated by the analysis. It also has a rendered version,
  `paper.docx`, suitable for reading (the code is replaced by figures
  and tables in this file)
- [:file_folder: data](/analysis/data): Data used in the analysis.
- [:file_folder: figures](/analysis/figures): Plots and other
  illustrations
- [:file_folder:
  supplementary-materials](/analysis/supplementary-materials):
  Supplementary materials including notes and other documents prepared
  and collected during the analysis.

## How to download and run locally

This research compendium has been developed using the statistical
programming language R. To work with the compendium, you will need
installed on your computer the [R
software](https://cloud.r-project.org/) itself and optionally [RStudio
Desktop](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

You can download the compendium as a zip from from this URL:
[main.zip](/archive/main.zip). After unzipping: - open the `.Rproj` file
in RStudio - run `devtools::install()` to ensure you have the packages
this analysis depends on (also listed in the [DESCRIPTION](/DESCRIPTION)
file). - finally, open `analysis/paper/paper.Rmd` and knit to produce
the `paper.docx`, or run `rmarkdown::render("analysis/paper/paper.qmd")`
in the R console

To be as portable and reproducible as possible, this compendium uses the
[`renv`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/) package to manage the packages
used. Opening the project with RStudio should trigger the installation
of `renv`, the necessary packages can then be installed with :

``` r
renv::restore()
```

### Licenses

**Text and figures :**
[CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

**Code :** See the [DESCRIPTION](DESCRIPTION) file

**Data :** [CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
